# PROMPTS

This document tracks the prompts to Claude Code used to create the idtrack application.

## PROMPT 1

Let's create an issue tracking system called IDTRACK. It will be a simple javascript/html/css web app and a back-end server
that provides authentication, database support, and other functionality. The backend will be written in Go.

### Directory components

I have provided the following elements to help get started.

- This file, PROMPTS.md which will contain a record of the primary prompts to Claude Code
- main.go is a simple starting go file, but can be replaced/changed as needed. It was used
  to verify that the IDE was primed for Go development.
- resources/https-server.crt is a TLS certificate to use for web serving
- resources/https-server.key is a TLS encryption key file to use for web server
- resources/idtrack.js is a version of this app that was written for a different backend, but it expresses
  the desired logic and UX well. The idtrack.html and idtrack.css files in the resource/ directory go with
  this prototype of the web app.

### Overall Architecture

There will be an idtrack Go application that acts as the HTTPS server and as a utility command for affecting
aspects of the tracking system.

When run as a server (based on command line options), it will listen on a port (specified by command line option)
for connections. When connected, it will serve the idtrack.html file (and subsequently the idtrack.css and idtrack.js
files). The web browser that receives these assets will act as the application platform for the webapp.

The webapp will form REST api calls back to the server with endpoints that reflect the abstraction points between the
webapp and the server. currently, the webapp prototype is written to assume a raw SQL interface, so much of the logic
of joining tables, etc. is done in the webapp. Additionally, the current webapp assumes the use of an Ego web server
for authentication and token management required by the Ego endpoints.

This updated version of idtrack will have a simpler interface to the backend, such that the SQL database handling
will all be done on the backend server based on the endpoints requested. So where there is currently a JOIN to combine
issue detail items with issue comments, the new version will just request "an issue" and the SQL operations will all
be done on the backend.

The database will be a SQlite3 database. The actual database file is specified on the command line.

The prototype acquires a bearer token from the backend server, and then the webapp does a simple authentication
check against the back-end. This updated version should have a user log in with username and password, hash the
password, and then use the username and hashed password as Basic authentication to the idtrack backend server,
which will verify each operation against a local database.

### IDTRACK command line

The following command line operations should be supported. The first argument is a verb, followed by options.

- idtrack serve [--port n] [--database path]
- idtrack user --add username:password [--database path]
- idtrack user --delete username:password [--database path]

#### IDTRACK SERVE

This launches idtrack as an HTTPS server. If the port or database are specified on the command line then use
those values, otherwise get defaults from the ~/.idtrack/defaults.json file. The server listens on an
endpoint /idtrack and when found serves the html file. It should also support endpoints for "/assets/idtrack.css"
and "/assets/idtrack.js" which are all read from the resources file.

The server should use the server.crt and server.key files found in resources if present when establishing the
HTTPS listener.

In addition, generate whatever extra endpoints are required by the design of the webapp to serve additional
functionality, such as:

- validate username and password combinations
- get list of issues, with filter and sorting and paging functionality as needed by the UX
- get detail information about an issue
- update an issue
- delete an issue

#### IDTRACK USER

This set of subcommands runs immediately, and updates the Sqlite database specified by the ]--database path]
option. The --add and --delete options will create or delete user entities. Store the password in a hashed value,
ideally matching the hash generated by the Webapp for validating a username and password.

## PROMPT 2

Let's expand the username a little bit. The login and password that exist now are fine. However, let's add the
ability to update the "Display Name" from the user interface.

Add a new option --name "text" to the "user --add" subcommand that specifies a value to be stored as the display
name.

Let's also add a new option "user --update" which accepts a username parameter and then optional additional
flags "--password text" and "--name text" that update the display_name and/or password_hash values in the
users table. The "--update" option only works on an existing name, it cannot be used to create a new name.

## PROMPT 3

Lets add a "--list" option to the "users" verb that lists the users. Do not show the password hash. Also, add
functionality to the webapp that records in the users database when the user last logged in via the webapp's login
operation. (not last time authenticated, as that is each request). Keep this in the users database, and make
it part of --list output.

## PROMPT 4

Let's make it easier to start the server and stop it. When the "serve" verb is issued, let's launch a copy of
idtrack to run the background so the user's terminal session isn't blocked. Record the process id information
of the server, so a "stop" subcommand can be added that stops the server that was started. You can consult the "Ego"
code in ../ego for ideas if that helps, though that is considerably more complex that perhaps what is needed
here.

## PROMPT 5

Let's add a "default" verb that accepts --port and --database options, and writes them to the default.json
file stored in ~/.idtrack such that a user can set them with the "idtrack default" command and then not
have to specify them again when starting the server.

## PROMPT 6

In the list of issues in the webapp, the "Reporter" and "Assignee" fields appear to use the short username.
Let's use the "Display Name" for the user in those columns.

## PROMPT 7

Add an "admin" attribute to user data. If a user has "admin" attribute, they are allowed to DELETE an issue, or
DELETE a comment on an issue. When a user is logged in who has the "admin" attribute, add a "Delete" button to the
top of the issue detail (to the far right of the issue title). Also, add a "trash can" icon next to any existing
comments that the user is allowed to delete. When a delete is requested, confirm with a dialog as this cannot be undone.

For users without the "admin" attribute, do not show these icons or permit the actual delete operations on the
endpoints you'll add to support deleting and issue or a comment.

Add a "--admin true/false" flag to the "idtrack user" command set for adding a new user or updating a user to set
or clear this attribute for a specifc user.

## PROMPT 8

Let's add a project and component to each issue. These must be selected from a list
of values in the database.

When creating a new issue, popup allow selecting a project from the list. Once the
project is known, the components for that porject are offered in a second popup.

Allow sorting the issue list by project and/or component. You can remove the column
from the listing of who reported the issue, but that should still be available as a
readonly value in the issue detail.

The issue detail list should allow the user to change the project and component. If
the project is changed, the UI should reset the component to "Choose..." or something
similar to show no component chosen. You cannot create an issue without choosing
an valid project and compoonent.

Create new idtrack CLI subcommands:

- idtrack define --project "Text"
- idtrack define --project "text" --component "text"
- idtrack delete --project "text" 
- idtrack delete --project "text" --component "Text" 

These commands create a new project, or add a component to a project in the
database of allowed project and component names. IF the define command specifies
a project that does not exist with a component, that is an error.

The delete operations remove the project (and all it's components), or if a
component is given, only that component. It is an error if there are any issues
that reference the project or component being deleted; the list of affected
projects should be displayed as part of the error information.

## PROMPT 9

For users with "Admin" privilege, add menu items to the hamburger
menu in the webapp that lets them delete projects or delete components.

The slideover lets them choose project and component, where 
component can be "all" which deletes the entire project. Add an
endpoint that supports this ONLY if the user has admin privileges.
IF the project or component cannot be deleted because it is in use
in an issue, that error should be reported back to the webapp user.

## prompt 10

For "admin" users, also add hamburger menu item for "Add Project"
and "Add Component" that lets the web user add new projects, or new
components in an existing project. Create new endpoints to support
this that ONLY can be used by an admin user.

## Prompt 11

For "admin" users, allow them to "Add User" or "Edit User" via 
new "hamburger" menu items. 

The "Add User" function will allow the admin webuser to create a new
user account using the web interface. This should allow specifying
a new (unique) username, display name, admin status, and password (bullet-text entry, require matching second copy of password). This is added
to the user data.

"Edit User" allows a user to change the password, display name,
and admin status for an existing user. There should also be a 
"Delete User" button that deletes the entry.

## Prompt 12

For the "Add Components..." menu item in the web app, let's
allow the user to create multiple components in one interaction
with the webapp.

Allow button to say "Add component", and when the user types
in a component name, it is added to the list. Each list item
will have a "delete" icon next to it that says to remove it
from the list being built. Ensure that no component is
created that already exists (case-insensitive checking). When
the user clicks the "Save" button, all components are added
 to the selected project.

## Prompt 13

Add a filter to the webapp by project. It should offer "All..." followed by an alphabetical list of projects. If a project other than "All..." is selected, the issue list should be filtered to only show those issues for that project.

For symmetry in the user interface, make the filter on project status work the same way. "All..." is the default, but a popup allows selecting "Open" or "Resolved" as selectors.

Let's make the same change to the filter for priority; use a
dropdown menu with "All...", followed by High, Medium, and Low.

## Prompt 14

Write a comprehensive user manual for using idtrack. This should include how the webapp works for regular users, additional features for admin users, and the cli which should include how to boostrap the system (create an iniitial admin user, start the server).

Put this in MANUAL.md in the resources directory. Add an endpoint that serves the Markdown as HTML, and add it as a button in the "About" window, which opens a new page with the served manual in the page.
